OpenAI reportedly taps the brakes, an exam system that missed a changing world, and James Clear on learning through failed startups.
Plus, how Bob Bag founder Kim Vaccarella worked her way from secretary to controller.
On Tom Bilew's impact theory, we hear why OpenAI reportedly slowed frontier development as powerful unreleased agents outpace alignment and monitoring.
The stakes.
Whether labs can understand and control new capabilities before deploying them.
And we're as surprised as anybody else about what it ends up being able to do, and its capabilities are currently outstripping our ability to get it aligned.
That's me paraphrasing Sam Altman and Brockman.
But that's pretty close to capturing what it is that they're concerned about.
And so according to Sam Altman, they've already slowed down development at OpenAI at the frontier level, and they're asking other developers to do the same.
Now, Altman has said we have multiple other trained agents at the frontier that we haven't released yet that don't sort of cross into the zone that he's super worried about.
So he's already talking a couple steps into the future.
He already talks about the version that hacked hugging face as being something that in AI terms is very old and they've already got all these additional safeguards.
But they're looking at this and they're wanting to pump the brakes.
OpenAI's chief scientist, Jacob Pachaki, pachiki, not sure how you pronounce it.
Uh, he echoed the same sentiment this weekend, saying that no lab has solved the alignment and monitoring problems well enough to responsibly keep scaling at maximum speed for much longer.
And he also wants to see voluntary slowdowns until like shared safety standards exist.
Now, I've talked about this before.
You've got multiple paths before us.
And one of those paths is you just panic and slow down.
The other path is that the AI companies are actually just trying to get regulatory captures so they can enshrine themselves as the people that can't be competed with because they're the only ones that are able to comply with the new regulations.
So all of this stuff really is going to require everybody to be quite deft at how they think through this problem.
And unfortunately, we're not going to be able to strip out the China of it all.
And if you guys are asking yourselves why everybody is getting worried about.
Slowing development only helps if the monitoring tools can catch up.
On Econ Talk, education researcher Daisy Christoph examines China's rigid civil service exams and the eight-legged essay.
Where you have to write an essay that is set out in a really precise and specific way.
Argument that the certainly the students who fouled these exams is not great for them.
But for the students who passed them and become the bureaucrats who are running China, they're really lacking in the kind of knowledge that is transforming the rest of the world.
So you can make a case that these exams play a very important proximate and ultimate role in one of the worst civil wars in history.
So we could spend an hour on the 19th century uh Chinese civil service and how uh it was the entry to it was control.
But uh one we were not going, we are not going to.
Um we're gonna divide it between the Chinese civil service of the 19th century and the British civil service of the 19th century.
No, we're actually we are going to touch on the latter, but we'll move on to other things.
But it's a fascinating story.
It raises a question, which I don't think you talked about in a uh preliminary essay you shared with me, which is why was were people so eager to be a civil servant in China in 1850, say?
And it it raises a general question, which we're gonna spend some time on, which is the prestige and pay and honor that's associated with the civil service differs wildly by culture and country.
And the significance of the civil service, the bureaucracy, I think varies quite a bit.
So let's start with China.
Why were people so eager to have these jobs?
Yeah.
So look, I don't want to uh uh overclaim and pretend to be an expert in China.
My entry into this has been through exams.
Um, my specialism is assessment and exams.
But I think obviously when you just see the sheer numbers of young boys and it is boys who are who are studying for these exams, you can read some of the literature that the failed candidates leave behind.
For whatever reason, it is hugely prestigious.
I think it's partly there aren't many other jobs or outlets for if you are kind of you have academic tendencies and you enjoy reading and you enjoy studying.
So it's there's not much else that necessarily you can do that will give you a living.
And in fact, when these candidates fail, a lot of the time the only option for them is to go back to their page and become a teacher and to try and teach the next students who are coming through and see if they can get them to succeed.
So there aren't necessarily many other other things you can do.
And I think, yeah, you know, the prestige and the power that the the civil service in any society is is is powerful.
A selection system can be brutally competitive and still reward the raw knowledge.
On capital allocators, James Clear recalls living on $10,000 after graduation while testing startup ideas that often failed.
It's a practical look at using small experiments to find a viable path without betting everything at once.
And I didn't know what I wanted to do, but I knew that I kind of wanted to be in control of it.
I knew I wanted to like do my own thing and have flexibility.
And so when I graduated, all my other classmates got jobs, and I just was like, well, I had saved up 10,000, and so I lived on that for the first six months.
And I was like, I'll just see if I can figure out a way to make this work.
I had to take freelance jobs and stuff to get by for the first like year and a half.
It really wasn't until about 18 months to maybe two years in that I started actually making enough to pay bills and be like, okay, this is my full-time thing.
So the first two years I kind of stumbled around, but then eventually I found my footing and kind of have led me to doing what I do now.
What was that path?
Somebody told me early on, try things until something comes easily.
And I did.
I tried a couple different business ideas early on.
Like one of my first ideas was this iPhone app that I tried to create, which you don't need to be very good at math to know that this is a bad idea.
I paid like $1,500 for a developer to make it.
It was pretty terrible.
In total, it made I think $17.
So that was a pretty quick loss off the bat.
I'm like eating through that $10K I'd saved up.
And then I had a couple other ideas for different businesses and domain names.
Like I bought puppypresent.com.
Oh, my girlfriend loves playing with puppies.
I should like make a marketplace essentially and get a bunch of breeders on there, and you could rent time out and play with their puppy by the hour or whatever.
The breeders hated the idea because they were like, you just want people to play with our dogs, but they don't want to buy them.
And so anyway, that didn't go anywhere.
So I tried a variety of things like that.
And eventually what I figured out is hey, these ideas that I'm launching, they're not going well because I don't have anybody to market them to.
Like I don't have an audience.
And so I started writing, I started blogging to build an email list because I was like, I need to have somebody to launch this product to, whatever the next thing is that I do.
And this funny thing happened along the way, which I was like, wow, I actually kind of like writing and building this email list more than I thought it.
The failures became information, and the limited runway forced quick learning.
On how I built this, Bob Bagg founder Kim Vacarella traces her early career in commercial real estate lending.
She started answering phones, took over the books, and advanced a controller.
Experience behind a business that later reached 100 million dollars.
Easy money.
Yeah.
All right.
So you are doing a lot of jobs where you you make tips.
And I think around 1992, uh, so you'd have been in your early 20s.
You get a job at a commercial real estate lending office.
Um is that right?
What would and what did you do there?
So I started, I was a secretary, and I would answer phones, and eventually I would start doing the books, and then I would start working with and building relationships with the high net worth individuals.
Then I started doing the spreadsheets and the rate of returns, and then I moved into a controller role.
And at a certain point, I had reached $100,000 a year.
And I think it was like probably was amazing, right?
Which was amazing.
And it was like a million dollars to me at the time.
Okay.
And you started a family, right?
You you got married and you had kids.
Tell me a little bit about your family.
About um, yeah, tell me a little bit about it.
Yeah, sure.
So I met my husband when I was 27 in a bar.
Um I I knew friends of his.
Okay.
And what's your husband's name?
Rosario.
Rosario, okay.
And he eventually becomes a police officer.
Right.
And and so, and I think you guys have two kids, if right, eventually you one and then another one.
Four years later, I have another one, yes.
And so that's basically your life, I guess, right?
From sort of, you know, the year 2000 on.
You guys are building a family, he's building a career as a police officer, you've got your career in commercial real estate, also juggling kits.
Yes.
You you know it was a good life.
That's today's daily rundown.
Thanks for listening.
We'll be back tomorrow.
