Whether smarter AI really means a rapid takeoff.
Why copper is becoming the new oil and a mortgage fueling a new foreclosure crisis.
Plus, how Alliance Bernstein is navigating passive investing and shrinking fees.
On the A16Z podcast, investor Ani Shacharya challenges the case for runaway recursive AI improvement and asks whether intelligence alone can overcome real world limits.
That matters as new concerns about AI misalignment and agent behavior move from theory into practice.
So I don't know that the empirical data bears it out.
I I think the final thing is that there's this sort of discussion about RSI.
And I know RSI is like recursive self-improvement is a fun term to throw around.
But if you ask the most sophisticated individuals at the labs, it's not actually RSI that's occurring, which could lead to some sort of runaway winner because they were an epsilon ahead of the others.
It's auto-catalytic effects, which just means you're using the technology to improve your process, but it's not truly recursive.
So I think everything from the most empirical to the most technical view points in the other direction, and yet we can't seem to let go of this fantasy.
Something I've been thinking about recently is seeing all these, like even seeing these crazy um stories about open AI's models, hacking, hugging face.
Yes.
All these stories, to me, feels like there's always been this question of are we on the fast takeoff or the slow takeoff scenario.
And it feels very much so that we are in the slow takeoff scenario.
Because every one of these milestones, it's like, holy shit, it hacked out.
We had no idea it was doing this.
But like we're catching it, we're watching it, we're observing it, we're iterating, evolving.
There's always this fear, okay, but tomorrow it's gonna take off.
What I'm hearing from you is that's probably not the case, which I think is the source of a lot of people's fears.
This idea that all of a sudden it's gonna become super, super intelligent and then we're in big trouble.
That's right.
Like the line of reasoning for that case is always everything up until now, then something happens that no one can quite articulate, and then fast takeoff.
So I don't believe that that's going to happen.
I do think that model progress is happening faster than ever before.
But if you look at something like economic diffusion, you know, I grew up in a small town.
I went back home last summer, like people's lives haven't changed that much.
So if nothing else, the sort of slow rate of economic diffusion will catch it.
I think the other thing that's under discussed, Lenny, is you know, how many problems are truly intelligence bound?
Like if you had a, you know, a data center of PH.
Smarter systems still have to operate inside stubborn economic and physical constraints.
On odd lots, mining executive Robert Friedland explains why copper is becoming the new oil and how geopolitics is breaking critical material supply chains apart.
That's a direct pressure point for data centers, electric grids, and the broader AI build out.
You know, I've always said, well, I work at Bloomberg, it's like the old ESPN commercials where you like walk around, you get to like meet all these luminaries just milling about the office, including our boss.
Why do you give us a um for those who don't know, why don't you give us a little bit of overview of Ivan Home Minds and just like the portfolio of things you work on?
What is uh what does it all add up to and look like?
Well, in life, you know, you tend to learn more and more about less and less.
Um we've been in the mining business for over 40 years uh globally.
And uh in recent years, uh Standard and Poor's has declared copper as the new oil.
We used to fight wars over crude oil.
I I doubt we would have gone after Saddam Hussein uh was shocking off if there was absolutely no oil in Iraq.
Uh but today the uh supply chain, which is a mystical concept of most people uh is being balkanized in competing uh geopolitical groups.
There's a war going on that's spreading, uh affecting the Strait of Ormuts and other critical materials, and copper is central to everything we do.
This super high technology studio, which is enabling us to talk to the whole world, is completely dependent on copper, and uh more importantly on mining, because everything you touch, we either mined it or we grew it agriculturally, and the farmers are totally dependent on mined product anyway, like fertilizer or their tractors.
So it is time to talk about copper's role as a paradigm for a suite of critical metals without which we're really going to have severe problems.
Can you give us your sort of origin story?
How did you get into mining?
Why were you interested in the space?
This is a uh uh strange and bizarre story, but uh Steve Jobs and I had a partnership uh that goes way, way, way back.
Uh our partnership agreement was stolen and uh is is has been sold on the secondary market to a movie.
The digital economy still runs on metals somebody has to mine and move.
Planet Money examines DSCR loans, commercial mortgages for landlords that qualify properties by rental income rather than borrowers by personal income.
The question is why these no income loans remain legal and how they're contributing to a new wave of foreclosures.
Loan.
It's called a debt service coverage ratio loan, a DSCR loan.
When I learned about that, I was like, what the heck is a DSCR loan?
What is debt service coverage?
What, you know?
And then I looked it up and I was like, what the what?
A DSCR loan is a type of mortgage, but it's not your traditional kind of mortgage.
It's a commercial loan.
It's designed for people who want to be landlords, who want to buy a home specifically to rent it out.
And unlike a traditional mortgage, a DSCR loan has this very unusual feature.
In fact, when Jack first googled it, he came across tons and tons of people talking about it.
It's called a DSCR loan.
It's called the DSCR loan.
No income verification.
You don't have to do it.
Zero.
And it's not a scam.
To get a DSCR loan, you don't need a job.
You don't need to prove any income at all.
And when Jack and Halley first heard about these no income loans that were sweeping through Baltimore, they were like, How is this even possible?
And yeah, here at Planet Money, we all had the same reaction because remember the global financial crisis in the run-up to that.
Banks had been giving out all these easy loans.
There are these loans called ninja loans, which stood for no income, no job, no assets, no problem.
You can still get a loan to buy a home.
So one of the main things that Congress did after the crash was to really tighten the rules.
Ninja loans were basically outlawed, and mortgage lenders are now required to check stuff like your income and your assets and your credit history.
So how are these DSCR loans that don't check your income or your job, how are they even legal?
To answer that question, we talked to one of the people responsible for making DSCR loans so popular.
I am Eric Abramovich.
I'm co-founder at Rock360.
Eric is in the business of making loans to real estate investors.
And he says the story of how these DSCR loans got so popular starts back in the early 2010s, right after the financial crisis.
Different underwriting rules don't make the underlying debt any less real.
On masters and business, Alliance Bernstein CEO Seth Bernstein traces the firm's return to equitable and its position as investors shift from active funds to cheaper passive products.
And uh so they've decided that they needed to sell equitable in a way uh facilitate that sale was to bring Alliance Bernstein and Equitable back together.
And so they were looking for a new head of Alliance Bernstein to do that.
And so a person I knew from my time at JP Morgan was at AXA, and she introduced me to a number of the senior people there, and the rest is sort of history.
So you've been CEO since 2017.
Right.
At the time you join, um Alliance Bernstein has $500 billion.
This is significantly higher, coming up on a trillion here.
But when you were joining, you're fighting some pretty substantial headwinds.
There was a big investor shift going on really since the financial crisis, from active to passive.
It went to pennies and then fractions of a penny.
No, you I don't think you have any idea.
Oh, really?
When you go from one company after 30 nearly 33 years into another company.
What I found was a company that had had a very tough financial crisis, their own investment performance and value and in growth.
If you'll recall, Alliance Bernstein is a merger of the growth manager alliance with a value manager in Bernstein.
Um and the stock had soared, and AUM of the combined entity had reached intra quarter, almost $900 billion dollars.
Um by 2012, they were $380 billion.
That shift changes both what investors pay and what an active manager has to prove.
Thanks for listening.
That's today's daily rundown.
We'll be back tomorrow.
