Why rate hikes can't fix war-driven inflation, how prediction markets get smarter, and why newly printed money never lands evenly.
Plus, a 16Z on using reputation to cut through Silicon Valley's information gaps.
And argues the Fed can't directly cure inflation caused by war and supply shocks.
And unfortunately, when you look back at what was going on in the Silicon Valley Bank when that imploded, that was basically a very similar setup to what we're seeing right now.
Now, despite the war driving a lot of the inflation, you've got the Fed actively hiking rates.
Now, I've made my position on this clear.
So if one of the biggest things that is driving inflation right now is the fact that we've got energy disruptions in two of the most important places in the world for energy production, Russia and the Middle East, then hiking that as if this were an economy that's getting too excited, that's spending money too much, that there's just too much capital flowing around, which is when that lever actually makes sense.
When you've got an economy that's overheating out of over exuberance, then applying the brakes to it makes sense.
But treating this like a spending problem rather than a war problem just means that basically you're going to keep trying to hike in the hopes of getting that inflation number down.
But the reality is that to do that, and you could, like there is certainly a point at which they could raise rates so high that everybody backs off the economy, people stop spending money, that kills demand, and therefore the cost of um or the overall cost of things, inflation begins coming down, but the only way to get there is to break the economy first.
And so that is a very weird strategy.
And we're seeing now that there's a 75% chance that they're going to hike again in October.
So uh the strategy does not seem clear-eyed from where I'm sitting.
Now, this opens up a whole drama if you guys have been paying attention.
So Trump said something the other day that really didn't garner as much press as one would expect it to garner, which is that he said higher rates can suppress demand, but they can't restore disrupted supply.
On Freakonomics Radio, economist Robin Hansen explains how informed traders, noise traders, and liquidity interact.
And when betting markets actually produce more accurate prices, no way.
Okay.
Now that's not just a waste of time.
That's a matter of who's right about this.
And that's an assertion of your own confidence and knowledge and commitment to what you know.
That's not just about other things besides yourself.
That is about you and the other person and who actually knows better.
Robin Hanson, we should remember, is an economist.
And most economists believe that these differences in information are what makes any kind of speculative market work by putting a price on that difference.
Here's how he explains it.
Our standard simple model of financial markets is that they have two kinds of traders.
One kind of trader knows something, and they are trading to profit from their information.
The other kind of trader is their trading for any other reason.
And it doesn't really matter what it is.
They are a worker who has to deposit so much for retirement every paycheck, or they are a retiree who needs to withdraw money every paycheck.
Either way, they have to make trades, but they don't have information.
These are the two kinds of traders in the standard simple model of financial markets.
So we call those noise traders.
If they are noise traders, what are the first ones?
You calling them signal traders?
I'll call them wolves, and I'll call the other one sheep to give you a vivid picture here.
Okay, perfect.
The wolves have information and want to trade on it, and the sheep don't.
Now, the wolves want to trade against sheep, not wolves.
If two wolves trade against each other, then they've got information that cancels, and they are not going to profit from that.
But if a wolf trades against a sheep, then the wolf on average knows something, the sheep doesn't, and then they will profit on average from their trade.
So wherever the sheep accumulate in the world of markets, the wolves go there.
That's why Google stock has more accurate prices than some penny stock because there's a lot of the key distinction: more trading improves a forecast only when real information enters the market.
Higher prices later.
So we think we could give this free optionality that uh eventually uh yeah, on a side we have this idea that when you print money, we are always quoting a guy named Richard Cannellon from 300 years ago who said money, sure, it's inflationary, but it's not neutral.
Yeah, picture a river, you dump a bunch of water at the top.
It takes time to get to the bottom.
And the people that are near the top, they get a lot of water.
The people near the bottom get it a long time.
Other people that are away from it don't get any water.
And so when they print money, some get richer right away, some get richer later, some never do.
But history shows scarce needed things like metals, like energy, like food, like farmland, eventually catch up with that inflation that's been put into the system.
And so we don't pay for that macro view.
We buy farmland and metals and other things too cheap if we're wrong about this uh money flowing through the the system over time.
That timing gap is the cantilon effect, and it quietly redistributes wealth.
On the A16Z podcast, the team introducing Cosign looks at information asymmetry and startup investing, hiring and career moves, and whether public conviction can become useful reputation data.
Because of course, if you're able to, you can express your conviction with your money, but not everyone's an investor.
It's almost like fantasy investing or social capital investment.
Yeah.
I love this idea.
I feel like I have long felt this, but as I have invested now for almost a decade, I believe it more and more.
Every week, every day, every month is like the most valuable data in all of Silicon Valley, is like who has conviction and who, and who can give you kind of a real read on a person for so many decisions.
Like who do you invest in?
Who do you hire?
What company do you join?
And there's such information asymmetry right now.
Like our job, investing every day.
We are pinging people saying, hey, do you know anyone who worked with this person?
And we do it every day, and we still, I would say, have to work really hard to find that signal.
And so, how can someone who is maybe evaluating between five startup job offers get that level of you just can't, especially if you're like an entry-level engineer.
And yet that could be the difference between joining like a complete rocket ship and like a company that isn't doing as well.
And I know the data has to be handled carefully around who says what about who, but I think it it will be, and there's like a massive opportunity to add so much value to people's lives and careers.
Talk a bit about, because you think a lot about talent discovery.
Talk about the news that you did because I think it's incredible sounds.
Yeah.
So my twin sister Justine also works here at Andreason on our infrastructure team.
We have both been in venture for basically a decade now.
And at our very first venture role, we started a newsletter that we ran every Sunday for I think like six and a half or seven years.
Thank you so much.
It was basically just aggregating startup job postings.
And the thesis was like we both went to Stanford.
We ran a startup incubator at Stanford, and still before we were working in a venture firm, we had no way to differentiate between all these startups and founders of who is legitimate, who's not.
It's a way to signal judgment, even when you don't have capital to invest.
That's today's daily rundown.
Thanks for listening.
We'll be back tomorrow.
