Whether AI spending is overheating the whole economy, why agent demand keeps pushing hyperscaler budgets higher, and what private equity marks hide.
Plus, how investors can keep their footing when a technology bubble refuses to behave rationally.
On odd lots, Chicago Fed President Austin Golesby examines how AI data centers are competing for labor, materials, commodities, and parts, and whether those pressures could overheat the broader economy.
Show up.
Does it feel like, okay, if we look at supply chains, they are getting tighter because data companies that are building this out are competing for real resources, whether we're talking about labor, materials, commodities, parts, and so forth.
Yes.
Um, and you hear it from business executives, but uh in some ways I feel like maybe too much.
Interesting.
That if you look at the price pressures coming from AI data centers, the build-out uh of very high investment, yeah.
This isn't the first time that there have been there's been high investment as an indicator of of economic growth.
But the overall overheating of the economy is is kind of the deeper question.
Sectoral AI is going up and some other industry is competing for electricians and construction and complaining bitterly about that, um, that's not the same thing as the economy's overheating.
It has to get out of its lane of just direct competition and drive up wages, drive up prices outside of just its lane, because if this one going up leads this one to go down, uh in the aggregate, it in a way the national unemployment rate and the national GDP growth rate tell you a lot about where you are in the in the aggregate economy.
That said, you hear it.
You go around the Midwest.
The Chicago district is kind of hard of the Midwest.
We're in Iowa, Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
I'm like, what's the biggest problem?
And they're like, the data centers are buying up all the land.
They're driving up the prices.
Nobody can construct, can do any construction.
You can't get you can't get an HVAC person.
Um it doesn't feel like we're far from what is the sort of traditional excess demand and outputs above potential, and that's driving up inflation.
So the AI build out isn't just a tech story anymore.
It can raise costs for everyone chasing the same real world resources.
On the A16Z podcast, the infrastructure behind the machine age puts numbers on AI demand.
Hyperscaler capital spending could rise from roughly 700 billion dollars this year to a trillion dollars next year.
The accelerant is agents consuming far more tokens as they take on longer, more complex jobs.
I mean, if you look at the hyperscalers, right?
Yeah.
Their capex spend has been exploding.
And next year.
Supposedly it's gonna reach a trillion dollars collectively across the bay.
Hyperscalers this year.
It's about 700 billion dollars, right?
And if you think about the hyperscaler's position in the industry, they see demand from everywhere, right?
They see obviously the frontier labs wanting their compute.
They see the AI data companies, they see the enterprise, they see the US geography, the international geography.
So if anybody has visibility, it is down.
And they're being jacking up their capex like it's never been seen before, right?
So that's a clear, clear sign.
And secondly, if you look at the companies that we see on a day-to-day basis, they are all ripping.
All the application companies, the growth is insane.
The Frontier Labs, the growth is insane.
It's been documented.
So I would say on the demand side, the signals have never been clearer.
That this is not a hype with and prices are going up.
Like we've never seen prices go like up on chips.
Yeah, it always goes down.
If you look at the price curve, it went like this and then back at this.
Yeah.
And we know only like five, ten percent of the address in the market has stopped today.
I mean, if you look at the supply across the board, it's basically all booked out to 2028.
I mean, it's so bad.
We've actually seen multi-day auctions for a few thousand GPUs.
The other side of that, of course, is demand.
And as Reggie said, we've seen the fastest growing companies we've seen in the history of the industry.
But also the unit of work that AI can do.
The value of that unit of work keeps increasing, but underneath the covers, number of tokens that are consumed is going by orders of magnitude.
That scale helps explain why infrastructure spending can keep climbing even as bubble warnings get louder.
On excess returns, investor Dan Rasmussen tests private equity's reputation for stability using publicly traded fund interests.
Those daily market prices expose volatility that quarterly delayed portfolio marks can smooth away.
And in that sense.
How volatile are those, right?
Like those are mark-to-market PE funds.
Like how are they, how volatile are they?
Um and they turns out their volatility is like 24, 25% annualized, which is like just a little bit more than small cap.
And so you're basically like, you know, what a shock.
Like turns out private equity is a little bit more volatile than small caps, which makes sense because it's levered microcaps.
So it should be a little bit more volatile.
Uh and so I thought it was a really clever, uh simple argument.
And uh, and of course, those vehicles have are doing horribly this year uh along with the private credit.
Right.
It's not only uh a way of looking at the uh the volatility, but also the discount to uh to nav, right?
So you can get a sense of you know what do people really think about the true quality of the underlying assets.
Exactly.
And basically for a long time they traded pretty close to par uh and now they trade like closed-end funds with uh you know 30, 40 percent discount to NAV, um, which is probably where private equity should trade uh in aggregate.
Got it.
Yeah.
So all right, so let's shift gears now.
Let's talk about the underlying assets.
And you know, given the theme of the show, um, the intangible economy, I want to focus in particular on a transition that we've seen um in in terms of the the uh the sector mix of of these assets.
So you know when people think of private equity, they probably think of like you know, LBOs and buyouts of old economy industrial businesses, car washes, dental practice, veterinarian clinics, right?
The the interesting thing is that you know the the world's quite different now.
And that that that um picture is somewhat obsolete, right?
And you you talked about this in your on your on our last chat that you know, over the past one, two decades, there's been a pretty market shift um in terms of the the focus um of these companies in terms of moving from your mature um old economy businesses to what's basically software.
Um the underlying risk may be familiar.
It's the reporting schedule that makes the ride look calmer.
On the Meb Faber show, investor Paul Kedersky turns to the behavioral trap inside technology bubbles.
Prices can look unjustifiable, then double anyway.
For anyone weighing today's AI boom, the issue is how to act when valuation discipline and market momentum split apart.
It's really tough to for humans to really put our wrap our hands around the these giant numbers a billion, 10 billion, 100 billion, trillion.
One of our old podcast guests, Owen Lamont had a great quote where he was talking about he said stocks are unreasonably high when prices ride to a valuation level cannot be justified by rational forecasts or subsequent cash flows, then they double.
You know what's funny though, and it's true, but the reality is humans are so myopic about this stuff.
There was that famous bumper sticker at the end of the dot com crisis and used to see around the Bay Area.
And it went something like, Please God give me just one more bubble, that this time I'll know what to do.
And it turns out they don't know what to do.
And this is they didn't know what to do in the financial crisis.
They didn't know what to do this time.
So as much as it's it's fun and you feel like people would learn from it or at least have a good time on the way up, it's doesn't work out that way.
Humans, and I, you know, I'm stealing from our mutual friend Barry Ridholt's playbook on this time, but the behavioral aspects of how people approach capital money, manias, and fads doesn't change.
They panic at all the wrong times, they chase things at the wrong times, and it just seems to be a uh you know uniformly true about how people approach these things.
And it's not because humans are stupid.
They're just doing the best they can with the limit information they have when faced with these massive phenomena at scale that exceed kind of their ability to think concretely.
Being early about excess can feel exactly like being wrong.
That's today's daily rundown.
Thanks for listening.
We'll be back tomorrow.
