AI's new capital math investing through instability in the case for patient concentrated bets.
Plus, developer T on why simpler software can signal more senior engineering.
On the A16Z podcast, investor Martin Cassado explains how AI lets remarkably small teams put billions of dollars to productive use in model development, and why that's rewriting startup economics.
The whole thing would be like a total mess, right?
And so now we actually know what to do with that money.
So I do think that now it's become a scale-up capital game.
I think the the companies that do raise a lot of money, they don't necessarily blow up, they know how to use it.
And I think that that actually is changing a lot of what's happening on the ground for us.
So the typical path before is if you get too much money too early, it could be an issue, but you're not seeing that anymore being the case.
Well, yeah, so there's this kind of a law of like engineering physics, right?
Where you rate, you know, you raise a bunch of money and then you try and hire a bunch of people to build a product.
And this is where the mythical man came from uh uh month came from.
Um, and you just can't really speed up timelines that way.
But then you end up like increasing burn and adding a lot of complexity, and like the roadmap gets very diluted, and then you have all like the the organizational um you know complexity that happens as a result.
And so, I mean, listen, some of these major model efforts were done with very, very small teams.
Like, you know, I'm not gonna say the exact model, but one of the very famous models, um, you know, multimodal model that many people use is probably one of the most uh popular models was built with a team of about 20 people.
And I would say the cost of that was probably two billion dollars plus, right?
And so this is unheard of in the history of humanity, in the history of engineering efforts, we've never been able to have 20 people, I don't think, being able to predict productively use two billion dollars.
Like, what does that even mean?
Put that much money to work with that small of a team and that small of a timeline.
And so I know we like to look at this wave in the context of like technical sophistication, you know, um, new capabilities, but I actually think like the one of the major stories is the fact that we're able to apply large amounts of money productively in short amounts of times to whatever problem that we're trying to solve.
Would would you say that this age and venture is just completely different from any age before it?
Totally, totally.
I mean, I I mean, it's just, you know, I again, there's always been this weird meme in venture, um, which is it's kind of not much of an asset class.
There's only a few companies you can't deploy a lot of money in it, which has often very weird to me to have like this zero sum thinking from people.
In AI, headcount is no longer a reliable measure of how much capital a company can absorb.
On excess returns, Schwab strategist Liz and Saunders makes the case that investors should prepare for instability, not permanently high inflation, but sharper swings in prices, policy, and geopolitics.
I just think this also is an environment where I think it's less about uncertainty and it's more about instability.
So I think unstable is the better unword to describe the current backdrop than the simple, more simple word of uncertainty.
With unstable as as the thing we're gonna anchor on for a second, portfolio construction.
What else?
What else does that mean?
You're a stock investor, you're investing for growth, you want some ballast in your portfolio, or thinking about other low volatility or less volatile asset classes than the stocks you own.
How much is that alternatives versus just a money market or something where you accept the returns low?
It depends on who the investor is.
So any any answers, I I bristle when I hear cookie cutter answers to a question that is about, you know, how should investors be positioned.
I know you didn't ask me directly for how much exposure to X asset class versus Y asset class, but it it really comes down to the investor that and all of the stuff that frankly, if we didn't have an hour, I'd say, you know, it's too boring to talk about, but it is really the stuff that matters.
Diversification across and within asset classes and periodic rebalancing.
I think some of what can be done in an environment like this is on the rebalancing side of the discipline.
Um and I'll get to the diversification uh part uh shortly, but rebalancing is often done based on the calendar.
If you're in some sort of structured program, or if you're looking at traditional, the traditional fund complex, they do their rebalancing in the case of mutual funds, final week of every quarter, many of the structured programs for individual investors might do annual rebalancing or semi annual rebalancing, which means the decision point is based on the calendar.
I think portfolio or volatility-based rebalancing is what gives you an edge in this environment because maybe ups the frequency, assuming you can handle the turnover and the tax implications associated with that, but it it it forces you investors to do a version of buy low health sell high, which is add low trim high.
Really basic stuff to talk about.
That distinction changes portfolio construction.
Resilience matters more when the regime itself keeps shifting.
On masters and Business, Alex Morris draws on Buffett and Munger for his science of hitting framework.
Then bet meaningfully when conviction is high.
Wait for the right opportunity.
So uh when I saw Substack come around and it went from having to understand anything on the technical side to write in word copy paste, which is more my speed for tech technology.
Um I I what decided to give it a shot.
I said I'll give myself a year and doesn't work out, I'll go find another traditional job, but I want to see if I can do this, and uh thankfully it's worked out.
And the science of hitting was a book by Ted Williams that Buffett loves to cite for the whole strike zone analogy.
If if you Google image search this, there's a uh a strike zone, and Ted Williams literally figured out every position a ball can be thrown.
Just picture 12 by I don't know, 20, however many it is, and figured out the percentage hitting average of where when a ball hit that spot where he was likely to hit it.
Um Buffett loves that analogy.
Why did you name your research service after it?
Say partly luck.
I don't know about the time I knew it was such a such an analogy that I like so much, and that would be uh be a good name to keep for the next uh you know, coming up on 15 years now.
But it really spoke to the way I think about investing in terms of being patient and then also making big swings when you get the chance to.
Waiting for your pitch, and when it finally comes, don't be afraid.
So so I'm gonna assume you're not averse to a concentrated portfolio.
I am not.
How how many holdings do you typically have in any given time?
In the range of 10 to 15.
Oh, really?
That's that's very concentrated.
So big big swing after waiting for your pitch.
Yeah.
I mean, there's and there's names like you said, I've owned Berkshire since 2011.
I've owned Microsoft since 2011.
There's most of the positions have been in there for a period of year or so.
You know, it it tends to be things that I've come to know quite well and have gotten f uh familiar and comfortable with.
So this raises the obvious question: when did you first become an av enamored of Buffett and Munger?
If you've been a shareholder since 2011, when when did they first show up on your radar?
Yeah, late 2000s, uh, when I was in school and I stumbled across the letters and actually a buddy and I both became obsessed with it, and we were at the University of Florida and we actually drove to one of the annual meetings, which is patience only creates an edge if you're willing to act decisively when the pitch arrives.
On developer T, Jonathan Cutrel explains how senior engineers use YAGNI, selective abstraction, and calibrated risk to avoid building complexity before it earns its keep.
So that's a little more technical than we normally get on the show, but that is the kind of thing that increases complexity and doesn't necessarily it it um you know the the YAGNI principle tends to come into play very heavily when we're talking about complexity avoidance.
You aren't gonna need it, and so let's not even put it in there.
So this is an interesting effect because um what we learn early in our careers is to try to hedge against all of these risks, right?
As we develop in our careers, we we eventually we refine our risk tolerance.
We learn that some risks are actually okay to accept, or we learn to allow our code to stay flexible in the future, but not try to build in a bunch of arbitrary complexity or uh flexibility that adds to the complexity now.
So yeah, maybe we'll need an abstraction, but we don't need it now.
We only have one example of this.
We only have maybe two examples of this.
Or, you know, this it's easier to just read all of this code in one place rather than in three different places and trying to kind of glue those together in my brain.
And so some of this um, you know, uh reduction of complexity is understanding when to break the supposed best practice rules.
So, yeah, maybe the best practices to abstract this, but actually it's not that hard to understand.
And I know what the abstraction would give me in theory, but I could probably get that by just thinking about it a little bit differently, or controlling my global variables or my scope, or naming things well, or you know, kind of simplifying things a little bit in a different way.
Similarly, knowing when to break the rules about risk.
Um, yeah, theoretically that risk could occur, but the likelihood is so low, and the cost that we incur in order to hedge against that risk is just insurance.
It's really expensive insurance because we're going to end up being really slow, or we're not going to be able to onboard people into this product, and it's going to take us a lot longer to, you know, to do anything meaningful.
A useful counterpoint today when faster tools make it even easier to produce unnecessary code.
That's the daily rundown for today.
Thanks for listening.
We'll be back with more tomorrow.
