The AI scaling thesis rattling chip markets.
Why government struggles to regulate technology in a data-driven reality check on internet trends?
Three clips, three very different ways technology gets shaped by compute, institutions, and culture.
On all in, the hosts unpack Leopold Ashenbrenner's thesis that multiplying gains in compute, algorithms, and model tooling could drive enormous AI progress.
With chip stocks falling and leveraged AI bets under pressure, those assumptions suddenly carry real financial stakes in the past year.
But if you're leveraged three or four X, you're wiped out.
Yeah.
And you get margin called.
So look, there's many examples of really smart people getting hurt by leverage.
Yeah, and that that's the lesson there.
Now, I think Leopold's a really interesting figure in the whole AI movement, and I would say an interesting thinker.
I met him about a year, year and a half ago.
Did you invest in the fund?
Did you give you a few years?
No, I wasn't an investor.
I was prohibited from investing in things like that.
You were in DC at the time.
Yeah.
But I thought he was a really interesting thinker, and he wrote a blog called Situational Awareness before he created the hedge fund version of it.
And I thought what was really interesting about it was just he laid out the bull case for the AI boom.
And just by the way, he's like very wired into an anthropic.
I think his fiancee is Dario's chief of staff, something like that.
You could almost say that he's like the hedge fund version of the anthropic thesis.
And what I thought was interesting about his argument is he talked about ooms or uh orders of magnitude, uh what she called oooms um increases in three key areas.
So he said that if you look at the raw compute, the chips, they were getting better at a rate of roughly 3x per year, which is roughly an order of magnitude or 10x every two years.
He said if you look at the algorithmic efficiency, so you know, techniques like reinforcement learning, things like that, the models were getting better at 3x every year, which is again order of magnitude every two years.
And then he also said that there were huge gains from what he called unhobbling, which I think now we would look at at things like the harness and connectors, you know, ways of using the model, those were also getting better.
The ways of integrating the model's decision making in practical ways, that the intelligence actually becomes useful.
And he said that that was also similarly improving.
And so, you know, you project forward when you have 10x orders of magnitude improvement in these key underlying fundamentals, these key drivers of the technology, and you can see that well, over a course of the key distinction in AI thesis can be directionally right and still become a disastrous leverage trade.
On modern wisdom, former military hacker Bill Thompson explains why government's technology talent gap complicates surveillance oversight and regulation.
He also points to DARPA's experimental model, small teams and permission to test as a possible way around that institutional drag.
Exposure of an American person.
But all of it still gets cataloged.
So it's all still there.
What's minimizations for the minimization is when there's an inadvertent collection of an American US person or even a dual citizen, the government's not supposed to be collecting against them.
So once there's an inadvertent collection, whether it's through technology or you accidentally recruit an American, which really doesn't happen that often, or you come across a media that was generated by an American, ostensibly, they're supposed to be protected by the Bill of Rights and unlawful search and seizure, freedom of speech, um, Ninth Amendment, uh, all of those things are supposed to come into play.
And uh, but what the government will do is they'll start a minimization channel.
And it's it's a good idea in practice because of course there will be inadvertent collection.
Like I, as an American might be traveling in Bahrain and then show up on a on a cell phone channel that they're collecting on.
And then my excuse me, my information is now collected, and that goes back to you know, Fort Mead or whatever, and they're like, oh, there's an American.
There's a process to get rid of that information.
It's just uh the process moves conveniently slow, in my experience, um, and uh uh is another vector for usurping people's rights.
Um there are people in there trying to fight it in the government.
The government, you know, you can listen to Rand Paul stump on this all day.
Well, you know, I agree with some of what he says, some I don't agree with, but um, they are obviously aware of these things happening.
They're fighting things like FISA, which we've mentioned, they're fighting things like the process for minimization, but it's a slow the government's a you know a behemoth.
It's gotta be hard when technology is able to move as quickly as it does to be able to keep up as well.
Legislation just takes so long.
And even working out, okay, what is the strategy we want to implement, let alone can we get it past the appropriate huddles legislatively to get it brought in.
Yeah, the staffing of that legislation and then the voting and the pork and presumably the talent is always going to be on the side of the people building the technology, not legislating.
Regulation moves differently when the people writing the rules can actually interrogate the technology.
On the A16Z podcast, internet culture researcher Ruby the lot test, heteropessimism.
Straight women's reported aversion to dating men against thousands of high-reach TikTok videos.
It's a useful check on whether a trend is broadly real or just amplified by platforms, headlines, and selective feeds.
We did we took a look at the top posts about dating on TikTok.
Um anything over a million views, take a look at 2,000 videos, and then um, you know, using the the scripts identifying did heteropessimism grow since 2020 on TikTok, reels, uh, and across different platforms.
And we found that dating content is mostly positive.
But our beloved journalists, I think, because of their algorithms, I think are getting hit with a lot of that content.
Right.
And then they think it's a trend.
But when I take a look at the data, the top 2,000 videos across five years, I can say that like it's actually kind of decreased over time.
And most dating content is for the most part positive, about 40 or 50 percent.
Yeah, that's fascinating.
So there is like a sort of loud minority phenomenon with content.
How many of the trends do you see are like entirely sort of like the proportion of them is just like wrong, like erroneous.
And and it's not only the loud minority, it's also the people who write about them have specific algorithms.
Yeah.
You know, they have specific lives that push certain things to them.
And so that also has an influence of what gets reported.
Yeah.
So I'm a critic, I'm a I'm I I I write for magazines, and sometimes I'm looking for a piece, and I'm gonna go on social media and I'm gonna try to find something interesting.
That does not mean whether it's a fashion trend, whether it's a behavior like six seven, that that actually has any prevalence in the rest of America.
You know?
So how how do you determine that?
How do you actually determine what has prevalence?
How do you determine what might just be a biasy that's on your algorithm or on a different journalist's algorithm?
Well, you do research, but you know, sometimes when you run a write a piece, you don't have time to do full research.
So you actually you'll interview the the TikToker, the person who's made that first post.
So it there still is a million view post proves reach.
Cross-platform patterns are what start to prove a trend.
That's the daily rundown for today.
Thanks for listening.
We'll be back tomorrow.
