A new software primitive for AI judgment, a personal agent that can cancel subscriptions end to end and the origins of a major fixed income strategy.
Plus, how Novartis mapped thousands of unmet medical needs to find its next research targets.
On the A16Z podcast, the team behind JV explains how probabilistic natural language decisions can become a reusable primitive inside code, not just more code generated by AI.
That distinction matters as developers ask why better coding models still haven't produced dramatically better software.
And the thing with JEV is whether or not your cloud coder are human, you have this new primitive, this new thing that you stick in your code that actually expands the power of software.
So instead of like writing code, it is something that you include in your code.
Which by the way is interesting because it's this very powerful primitive, which would be great if you explain, but it's also a little bit different than like how programmers think.
For example, like it has this notion of probabilities or so an intelligent layer inside the software.
Yeah, think of like a library, yeah, like a library that you can use natural language to describe what you want, and you give it kind of a state machine, and then it will choose what to do with some confidence levels, which we kind of haven't really had before.
Ooh, there's a lot of tricks there.
I will jump into one thing first, which is I love the first thing you said in the direction of where the fuck is all the automation.
I love software so much.
I wish I could be writing it all day.
It's would not recommend being a CO to people, but whatever.
And also, it's wild, but AI is so cool, and software has been unchanged in 10 years.
You know, like that to me, like no one can square this together, and the most we can do is add like a little chatbot in the side sometimes that can take actions, but not all actions, because some of the actions are not reliable now.
I love the point.
So I just want to give like that tiny aside.
I'm gonna jump back to the point about like this is a little bit of a different way to think about it.
Yes, I think that machine native doesn't exactly match bits perfectly.
And like that's actually the art form that we are trying to do.
In our onboarding on day one, I draw like the Venn diagram of like what AI is good at, what is valuable in code.
We're in the middle.
So, you know, we don't output like extrapolated floats, for example, because like AI is just bad at that.
Sure.
But things like probabilities are not exactly novel.
And it's similar to the is Jeb just a classifier argument.
Yeah.
Like classifiers are sick.
Classifiers were the bet is that software improves when models gain a defined role in the program, not simply a larger share of the typing.
On Invest Like the Best, Noah Shin shows Patrick O'Shaughnessy how Instinct can spot and use subscription and bank data, find the account email, authenticate, and cancel it.
It's a concrete test of personal agents.
Coordinated access and execution rather than some rogue system acting without boundaries.
And then it can go in the email and unsubscribe from it.
Yes, yes.
It can go end to end.
You know, you know, these these popular uh consumer um uh like FinTech products where where they'll just like surface it to you and then tell you like, by the way, you should cancel these.
This will go end to end.
So they go into the site, sign in.
If it's there's some um sort of like confirmation that goes to their email or it has access to the email, so they use that and they sign in, they go to the very end, they cancel the subscription, and then it just sends back the number of what it saved you, like, hey, by the way, you're you're saving two thousand dollars this month because of these things.
Man, any product that's dependent on consumer laziness or inertia is toast, huh?
Like toast.
Yes.
That's good.
Good for the consumer.
Can you tell us about the instinct to instinct network?
Oh, yes.
The future of agents talking to each other.
There are um more practical scenarios where that is something new that I think will be uh you know, you know, transformed the way that that certain people act in certain ways.
I think it's only been around for for a week or so, or like I guess 10 days.
Honestly, the purpose of this is not to think about like a new new feature to build, but more about very busy working professionals, you know, they're taking meetings all day long and and they're they're constantly meeting with like new people and and existing people.
You know, the process of getting a meeting on the calendar, you know, it's just so so um so laborious.
You know, you know, you text like, hey, you want to meet at this time, and then they say, No, that doesn't work, like but these times work, and you say, Oh, but I'm traveling, so maybe this time works, and I'll be in this time zone though.
And there's just so much back and forth there.
However, if it was possible for you know, the two users who were using instinct, probably, you know, also like brainstorming these times that they're available with instinct anyways on the other on two ends, are able to just communicate directly, like, hey, the goal is just to find the time, right?
We don't need to play this back and forth game, and nobody's really playing games here.
We're just trying to find time.
That's been a a very canonical use case, actually.
I think the the um way that you can find time on a calendar now is just so different, where you just say your intention.
I want to meet with this person.
The real product challenge is earning enough trust and permission to complete that entire chain on capital allocators.
Bracebridge founder Nancy Zimmerman traces her path from bond market making and basis trades to building a fixed income arbitrage firm after the 1987 crash.
Her story shows how Treasury relative value strategies grew from market structure, institutional retrenchment, and a very specific trading apprenticeship.
Now there's 48 in the first three years of the curve.
How did you get from that initial seat to eventually starting Bracebridge?
There was a crash in 87.
This is when stocks used to go down.
And oh God, I was looking at equity place, a little bit of a retrenchment into that.
And I went to Goldman to try to see if I couldn't help them build a platform that made prices in US Treasury options everywhere.
It was exciting.
I learned a lot of things.
I spent a third of my time making prices or managing somebody who made prices, a third of my time doing the kind of things you do to have a vibrant, fabulous business like Goldman has, building models, cultivating clients, working with clients, educating salespeople.
And I spent a third of my time proprietary trading, trying to take advantage of the difference between two completely fungible cash flows on the U.S.
Treasury curve, or two options that were on the same part of the yield curve, stripping and reconstituting bonds.
That third was where it lit me up.
I was always interested in figuring out why is this happening, how much worse is it going to get, what's going on here?
What are the flows that make this happen?
What are the institutional arrangements that make it happen?
And so I wanted to have my whole day be like that last third of the day.
I went out into the world to try to find a way to do that.
Eventually, a lot of wanderings leave me in an office sitting with David Swenson and Dean Takahashi.
David was the grandfather of the swap, talking about how he built that and LIBOR and why aren't these things efficient.
I tell David what I do.
There's a lot of alpha in fixed income.
There's too many instruments describing the exact same things.
You can generate an uncorrelated return by putting them together and make a diversifying set of cash flows.
He loves the idea.
And I said, Wasn't somebody else doing this?
He said, No.
Every time I meet somebody who says they're doing this.
On the Peter Atia Drive, physician scientist Lloyd Clickstein describes a Novartis project that cataloged roughly 7,000 clinical indications, then ranked unmet needs the company could turn into research programs.
So Mark Fishman, who was the president of Novartis Research at the time, had a few of us come into his office and said, we need to make the most needed medicines and find out what we're not doing that we should be doing and get it started.
And we had a budget for that.
So super.
As I mentioned, I start with patients and indications and medical need.
So starting there, we made a list of about 7,000 clinical indications that were unmet.
All clinical indications.
We just made a list of all the clinical indications.
It didn't have everything there, it only had the ones that people had recognized at the time.
But it gave us a framework in which we could start thinking.
And then it sounds like a lot, but surprisingly, it isn't.
It's maybe 10 or 20 pages of a paper at the time.
And we grouped them into things that we were already working on, things that were rare genetic developmental things that would be difficult to approach.
And the remainder fell into maybe seven or eight different buckets.
And then we started working on those.
One of them was healthy aging.
And one of them was ENT, and one of them at the time was renal diseases.
And we should talk about that some more because that's the regulatory endpoint.
Novartis wasn't at the time working on liver diseases.
One of them was those, uh, sort of fibrotic diseases in general.
And there were some others.
And we started our program and it eventually grew to have dozens of projects and uh became a bit of a monster.
And then we had to sort of whittle it down a little.
But some really interesting studies came out of that.
One of them, which I know we're going to get to later, is Magramab for muscle diseases.
There's a long story there, but but again, it came out of a medical need of frail elderly people.
And I was very mindful as a rheumatologist.
I saw some of these people.
If you at the time, I'm not, I haven't looked at the It's portfolio strategy built from patient need first before a promising molecule dictates the agenda.
Thanks for listening.
We'll be back tomorrow.
