The financing risk behind the AI boom, a philosopher's test for mind body laws, and a hidden contest for retail shelf space.
Plus, Iran's leverage over the Strait of Hormas and the limits of American military power.
On Tom Biliew's impact theory, investor Raul Powell weighs a cape ratio near 40 against reports of open AI plateauing and anthropic burning cash.
As new AI models keep arriving, the question is whether their financing can survive expectations this high.
That resonates with me because I look at something like that.
Although he just did add to his Google position.
Yes, but he also just backed out of his Apple position.
He's sitting on more what people refer to as cash, uh, you know, uh historic levels.
And now for me, I just look very simply at the CAPE ratio.
And when I see the average has been 16 to 17 X, and we're now sitting at 40 X, meaning the revenues that are actually generated by let's just round it to the S P 500 versus what people value the S P 500 at have become um not a historic, but we're reaching historic highs that we haven't seen since the dot com bubble burst.
And I go, okay, I believe the technology, I believe everything that you've just said in terms of its importance, its inevitability, all true.
Is it priced right?
Is it priced right?
And right now, we've already seen open AI plateau.
So if you were just all in on open AI, you're probably going to get hurt unless you start adjusting.
The same thing could happen to anthropic, because yes, its revenues are growing at an insane rate, but it's still burning capital faster than it's generating the revenue.
And so I go, hey, despite the inevitability, there are going to be people that get hurt economically as we repeat the historical pattern of every revolutionary technology ends up taking on debt to the point where it wipes out the first round of investors.
And then it's the inheritance generation of investors that actually make the money.
So there's a number of things within that.
Firstly, the CAPE ratio, just don't forget debasement.
Debasement is what moves E moves uh the price.
So the P ratio price goes up because of the debasement of currency, and earnings grows with GDP, or you know, in the case of anthropic.
Better technology and a sustainable investment cycle aren't automatically the same thing.
The partially examined life unpacks Donald Davidson's distinction between homonomic and heteronomic generalizations.
Why mental events may resist the strict laws we expect in physics?
It's a technical idea with real stakes for how we explain minds, actions, and machines.
And in fact, in the uh the book version of this, right, in his essays and action events, there's an appendix, which is a separate essay.
It's only three pages that is uh just as a footnote in our version.
Emma Roses by other names.
So an emerald that becomes a rose.
And he just basically makes the same point that you know, it's it doesn't really add much to what we said here.
So then we'll talk about these right generalizations.
I got into this a little bit, right?
So instead of these law-like regularities, we can make these generalizations that relate the physical and the mental.
And we do them anyway, right?
Within the physical.
That's the reason he, although he doesn't talk directly about idealization, that's why I brought up that point.
These are homonomic generalizations, but we think of them as tending towards asymptotically towards some law as we refine them.
And we expect them to be finished out in the same sort of vocabulary, right?
So even though we might have some physical law that needs that we suppose needs further is just a generalization that is subject to further refinement, but we don't expect that refinement to jump over into some other category of vocabulary, like the mental.
Heteronomic generalizations, though, between the physical and the mental do require different vocabulary for that refinement.
Yeah, just so I'm sure it's probably obvious to most people, but right, we've been talking about nomological, right?
Has to do with laws.
And so if it's homonomic, homonomic, then you know, the same, then we can have a law because the things are the same type and they can fit in a law.
There's we can try to make generalizations heteronomically by talking about one vocabulary, you know, is correlated with something from another vocabulary, but those are not going to be sharpenable into a scientific law.
And in the case of homonomic generalizations, right, that we're using concepts that are strongly constitutive, he says.
Planet Money follows exploding kittens through a confidential pitch to a major big box retailer.
The clip shows how line reviews decide which products win scare shelf space and which businesses lose access to millions of shoppers.
It's a pitch to the representatives from Ah, yes, we have arrived at the situation.
So we are not saying the name of the big box store coming to the office today because Exploding Kittens told us who they're talking to, the deals they're making.
This is the kind of stuff that, you know, makes or breaks their business.
And so we agreed to not record the actual pitch meeting and to not reveal the actual name of the big box store in that meeting.
But suffice it to say, Exploding Kittens was taking this company's visit very seriously.
Yeah, let's go through seating where everyone should sit.
It is now T minus one hour until the meeting.
And Thor and I jump onto an emergency pitch prep call.
How's everyone doing?
Yeah, no, I'm good.
Okay.
I do have a lot of notes.
Ilon Lee is the co-founder of Exploding Kittens.
He has become our friend, our co-pilot, our general sage through the Planet Money board game project.
Should I be nervous?
Um, they're they're actually they're really good guys.
However, they've seen the best games in the world fail without proper marketing support.
So our goal today is to say, okay, we all love this game.
Everyone who plays this game loves this game.
Now we're going to tell you why it's also going to be the best selling game of all time.
Yeah, big box companies have small armies of buyers in charge of finding and buying the things for their sections of the store.
There are baby aisle buyers and cosmetics buyers and food buyers, and today, the exploding Kittens office is going to be visited by the board game buyers from the big box store that that shall not be named.
This whole song and dance is part of something called line review.
As in a seasonal review of product lines, retail buyers have to regularly look at what's on the shelves in their sections of their big box stores and decide what to keep, what to get rid of, and most importantly for us, what new products to add for the upcoming.
On making sense, Sam Harris examines Iran's leverage over the Strait of Hormuz and argues that U.S.
military strength doesn't guarantee a clean exit.
With global shipping and energy markets exposed to that choke point, the limits matter far beyond the battlefield.
US territory, and he's backed up that claim with a photo of the location encircled by his magic sharpie.
Any new thoughts, or is this just the same disaster with new details?
Yeah, I mean, I so I don't think I deserve much credit for calling bullshit on on the MOU.
Uh I mean it was just obvious.
So too, is this obvious?
I mean, the we don't have a good way out of this war.
There's there's certainly no way for Trump to declare victory credibly and um move on, which is uh obviously he wants what was what he wants to do, but there's just certain things are objectively true.
Iran has more, despite all the people we've killed, all the leader the leadership we've killed, Iran has more power today than it did before the war.
We've demonstrated that that it can have a stranglehole on the Strait of Hormuz and we can't do much about it.
It can attack our allies in the region and our own bases in the region, and we're now we've run out of the um interceptors and other weapons we need to defend all that, or virtually run out.
So we've advertised our weakness and Iranian strength over the course of this war in a way that is impossible for anyone to ignore, despite what Trump says about it.
So that's where we are.
I mean, this is just total incompetence as far as I can tell.
I mean, it's just it's not to say that the initial you know bombing run with Israel wasn't uh a display of massive military competence.
I think it probably was.
And and I guess it at that point might have been plausible to think that the regime might fall.
But the fact that we were so low on the weapons we need to fight a longer war, uh, the fact that uh a war with China is seems more or less unthinkable given how a war with Iran has played out.
I mean, all of this is is is I mean, we we might have known about the known this about ourselves.
Uh one would have hoped we would have known this about ourselves and not have just been completely surprised on all counts here, but but the world didn't know it about us.
And uh the world has, you know, Iran has called our bluff, and now the world sees that in many respects we are.
That's today's daily rundown.
We'll be back tomorrow with more voices shaping the conversation
