Autonomous healthcare agents, AI as a new source of power in a real assets case against the classic 6040 portfolio.
Three clips, three very different ways technology and markets are shifting underneath us.
From the AC16Z podcast, the team behind Lassie explains how small medical practices became testing grounds for autonomous healthcare agents with clinical context, financial tools, and hipposensitive data all in play.
It's the practical side of agentic AI, earning enough trust to do real work in a regulated business.
The first sign.
So I think the first sign to us that these people said yes, Dr.
Kwan said, just come and sit here night five.
You can do the job.
Dr.
Shah was in Scrinton, Pennsylvania.
He set us down behind the desk and said, you can have access to anything you need to have access to or teach you like my son.
So that was the first sign that this was very broken and not a solved problem.
And then I think that triggered our intuition for okay, we might be onto something, because this is a real pain that people are desperately looking for a solution.
And from a technical perspective, so Frederick, this is started in 2020, and so much was different then in terms of what was even possible to build.
Like how has your product building process changed over time?
How is what you thought possible then different from what you think is possible now?
I would say when we started the business, we were always obsessed with automating and putting the business on autopilot.
So that hasn't really changed.
Back then the models weren't that good though.
Especially reasoning models, didn't really exist in that form.
But if you think about what it takes to automate any job, you're really looking at getting context on the work, which in the case of a doctor office is basically you need to have access to all the historical data, the patient records, that sort of stuff.
And then you need tools to do the work.
You know, this is true if you're a human in the office or if you're an agent.
And so we started building the context layer and building the tools.
And it's just that the intelligence layer wasn't that intelligent.
But for the first job, it wasn't that necessary.
Like the most basic kind of automation didn't require that much reasoning.
But then as the models got really good, we had this kind of huge tailwind because we had all this context already built, all the tools are already built, and we could kind of, as the models got better, just replace our intelligence and the product would just get smarter over time.
So in that way we got a little lucky, but I think the core vision hasn't really changed at all.
It was always about automating the work and not building.
An evolution, but not a revolution in terms of text capabilities.
That uh, you know, like perhaps some level of concern over bias is salient, perhaps some level of concern over misinformation is salient because Facebook, the actor that we know has power, is known to be capable of doing misinformation, and maybe AI could make misinformation 10% more bad.
And if you're a mince misinformation specialist, it being 10% more bad is a really bad thing for you.
I think one thing that explains the results we're seeing is if people believe that AI is less likely to be an evolution and more likely to be a revolution, more likely to be a source of power unto itself, either a model itself or to the controllers of the model itself, you become not only worried about the sort of leading risks, uh existential risk or proliferation of nuclear biological chemical weapons, other national security level risks, but it also increases your credence that um all of the quant the smaller harms that was worried about are probably not like 10%.
They're increases in the total amount of harm in the world in this cause area.
They're probably something more like 100% or a thousand percent increases.
And so it does make sense that increased uh perceived power generated in the world by AI and divided to uh between some category of the AI, the AI users and companies that control AI, would cause people to become broadly more AI skeptical along a range of axes rather than just uh one axis in particular.
Now, there is a question of, you know, there's a theoretically a limited amount of space in any bill, uh, and uh I don't know how people square the political capital of it, but uh thankfully that's someone else's problem.
Right, right.
Yeah, and uh it it's funny.
If you look at the attention in terms of like keywords and news articles uh around AI, AI ethics concerns have gone up since ChatGPT came out.
There's more mentions of bias plus AI in in headlines.
Um but then if you look at, you know concerns around other things like exocential risk, they've gone up to a greater The risk isn't only what AI invents, it's what AI makes dramatically cheaper to scale.
From excess returns, investor Rupert Mitchell makes the case that a diversified portfolio of real assets can outperform the traditional 6040 mix.
He gets concrete about metals, supply constraints, and staying with a goal position through a drawdown.
Useful context is investors question heavy mag 7 exposure.
Um, which is kind of what it says on the cam.
Kind of what the goal is.
And actually, let's say this before we talk about supply.
The goal on this portfolio, do better than the 6040, help you sleep at night, but with a very different aspect than why you're not 6040ing it.
Say that say what that is.
It's it's it's essentially, I mean, I tr interestingly, I'm going through this exercise this week in terms of red teaming my antipathy towards bonds.
Um, you know, I'm I I I'm I'm I'm I'm a notorious sort of bond disliker um and have been over over over the last year.
Doesn't mean a bond bear, it means sort of passively aggressively disinterested in long-duration fixed income.
Um largely because I don't see um the diversification benefits um in a world where you know stocks and bonds and total total returns in stocks and bonds appear to be positively correlated.
Um once again.
Now we had this sort of magical 20-year period at the beginning of this century where you had this this this magical property of inverse correlation, but it's not working anymore.
And therefore, you know, you are you're you're you're you're required to make you know a long-term bet on what kind of monetary regime we're in, right?
And what kind of inflation regime we're in.
And you know, listen, I'm I'm I'm uh I'm I I see inflation everywhere, right?
Um, and so ultimately I'm looking within Bushy to find other ways, um other alternatives to bonds that are going to um keep keep up um you know keep the purchasing power of my my investments.
And I just don't think bonds are the answer for that here.
So one place we're certainly seeing inflation is in equity issuance.
Because man is a coming.
Oh, man is a coming.
You are a pro.
I'm here for you, my friend.
I am here for you.
Take me to this.
This is literally when you started putting up.
Diversification here means changing the underlying economic exposures, not simply owning more tickers.
That's today's daily rundown.
Thanks for listening.
We'll be back tomorrow.
