AI powered account attacks, China's open source AI advantage, and why selling new technology comes down to timing.
Three clips, three very different stakes from your inbox to the global industrial race.
On complex systems, Patrick McKenzie and Manish Gorgocker explain how LLMs make persistent, individualized attacks cheaper.
And why losing one email account can expose your banking and brokerage accounts too.
However, given that it is now the one ring to rule them all, there are things that are directly tied to your identity account, such as, for example, your email or indirectly tied to your identity account, where the possession of the email will allow someone to reset credentials on, for example, a bank or brokerage, such that uh compromise of the identity account is equivalent to compromising many of the high value accounts that are in a given person's ecosystem.
And then with this access, once they had this access, they can kind of even just sit on it.
They they they the attack was described as they're sitting on it, and they kind of use that to slowly gather information on you, slowly extend expand that access to other places with that login, maybe even use that to get access to some of your financial accounts by resetting passwords and deleting the hey, your password was reset email, and you know, just generally monitoring and being really smart about how to do the attack.
You don't even know you're compromised, and they're able to just sit on this for a while and then strike when they think is is the best time to strike for the most amount of money or whatever they're looking for.
Right.
In the in the case where they have an email account, they have your email archives going back for years, so they can build the profile of you.
Where do you do banking?
Where do you do uh brokerages, etc., et cetera.?
They could potentially even, if you had an you know, an unlimited amount of time, if you were an intelligence agent so you're looking into the life of a person, you could predict when are they going to have a lot of money in their account?
When will they sell their house next?
When will they have the next IPO, et cetera, et cetera, and then hit them after that.
This is not what people historically do when they cut credentials.
Historically, this credential is sold onto the black market very quickly, and the credentials are known to expire rather quickly as people uh move to new credit cards, et cetera, et cetera.
And so the quote unquote best practice for bad guy Inc.
has been to extract as much value as quickly as possible from proloing credentials.
And that is, you know, when that changes, when these sort of the industry jargon is persistent threats start to be something that is not just affecting uh intelligence agencies on intelligence agencies, but actually affecting you know regular individuals at the top of the socioeconomic ladder if they're programmers and elsewhere in the socioeconomic ladder, because uh this scales to the moon, that's going to cause uh something of a rethink in how we deal with financial security and how we deal with uh securing accounts that can move.
Your primary email is now effectively a master key.
So securing it like a financial account matters.
On all in, the panel connects China's abundant energy and automated manufacturing base with open source AI, a timely backdrop for today's deep seek v4 pro release.
Simple.
So I don't kind of say, you know, I don't think that we were exporting those cultural things, and therefore that's where this problem came.
I don't, that's not how I see the point of origin, or what has happened here.
You can ask whatever you want.
Fair enough.
Can I just ask one thing on China?
So China's been historically It's your podcast.
It's whether it's what it's whether I answer it.
Well, I'm just here for Jason at his pleasure.
But um you're doing sweetie keeping it.
That's true for both of us.
Okay, well, thanks.
Um Jason's gonna have me back.
Okay, so as as I look at China, historically it's been about this manufacturing base, this energy production capacity, right?
I often reference they're on their way to eight terawatt of electricity production.
We're kind of sitting around one, hovering around one, finding it very hard to get to two by 2040.
So China's got this massive amount of energy that they can use to power electrified things.
They've got 20 times the manufacturing square footage of the US, and much of it is automated.
But now with AI and open sourcing AI, not only is China kind of dampening the capacity to compete in manufacturing, making molecules, making pharmaceuticals, making materials.
Now we're seeing them effectively eliminate the capacity to compete in knowledge services and IP.
And this has really been the heart of the US economy, at least for the last 30 years, probably going back even further.
But as we shifted to a more kind of global trade oriented economy and we allowed manufacturing to move to China and elsewhere, we focused on this kind of knowledge and services base.
Do you think that we have a response against China today with how we're positioned economically and what's going on with AI?
And this is the thing I worry a lot about in this China US conflict is we're all still still looking at the last 30 years as opposed to thinking about what the next 20 years look like in a world of kind of AI commoditization of all the things that American economy's been powered by.
One uh so let's step back.
The advantage isn't any single model, it's the full stack from power to production.
On the A16Z podcast, a discussion of lighthouse versus land grab sales strategies uses some Sarah's early data infrastructure thesis to show why technology transitions reward the right market entry point.
They exist.
And there's existing budget.
And again, we have a whole bunch of portfolio companies.
You named a couple in the article that are doing that today.
They're inserting themselves in, saying, hey, we built a better way to go after this through AI.
And I think those are the great companies going after the land grab strategy.
Yeah.
And it's interesting.
I mean, for those that aren't familiar with Andy's background, he's he's built some of the best sales organizations that I've ever heard of at Samsara and Meraki.
And I've always found like these these stories like really fascinating and illuminating.
Like the Samsara, you know, story around kind of the ELELB mandate is the way I understand it.
Kind of basically forcing the category to happen everywhere, all at one point.
And it's just who can go out there and do it fastest.
Maybe it's just if you could for the audience's edification, share a little bit about what that like big why now moment was.
Sure.
Because we're kind of having one right now.
Yeah.
And how you guys just kind of went and captured it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think if you're in the industry for long enough, and I've got the gray hair to prove that I have been blind, blind.
Yeah, bordering on gray.
Sure.
You tend to see these big transitions.
And I'm old enough to have seen the internet come about and certainly mobile and cloud, and obviously now AI.
And each of those causes this transition and it causes new ways to think about how you go to market.
Not wholesale changes, but always tools to help improve upon them.
And I think the other thing I would say, I can't name too many companies that have become hugely successful without some element of timing and luck.
Right.
And so you talk about Samsara and the company was founded back in 2015.
I joined in 2017.
And the idea back then was at the very beginning, it was like internet connected sensors, like all the value chains are going to become censored up.
How do we get sensors out there, ingest this data, give it back to business owners in in digestible and usable ways?
And one of the first products that started gaining traction were these telematics units.
And taking a step back, if you think about the world of transportation, long haul trucking, right?
Prior to like 2016, they had these manual logbooks.
If you were driving a truck and you stopped to take a break, you would write down in your logbook, I just drove for four hours, now I'm taking a 20 minute break.
And then you drove for two more hours and you stopped for lunch.
A strong technology can still arrive before customers have a budget or after the market is already claimed.
That's today's daily rundown.
We'll be back tomorrow with Eclipse Shaping Tech.
