The global race over open AI, whether automation is already squeezing entry-level work, and why index funds keep winning.
Plus, the emerging split between frontier models and cheaper, self-improving agents.
On a 16Z podcast, box CEO Aaron Levy sides with Nvidia's Jensen Huang against isolating China from the AI stack.
His point, open weight models already make technological containment nearly impossible for 10 years.
Yeah.
So it just may be one of those things, which is, you know, the the cats out of the bag on that.
We can't unwind that dynamic.
Like open weights models exist.
China knows how to produce them.
I lean more on the Jensen side of the argument.
You know, everybody had this moment where they watched the Jensen Dorokesh podcast.
And that was like the original kind of Rorschach test of like, you know, some people parse Dorcash as like, obviously, like that's the exact right position to be taking.
And you know, you should be interrogating Jensen.
And then other people watched it and was like, why is Dorcash not understanding Jensen's point and kind of letting him kind of, you know, sort of expand on that?
I was like watching it and just was like, yeah, Jensen's obviously right.
You can disagree with it, but he's obviously right that the following will happen.
If you block off China, China is like not going to give up on AI.
They're not going to just decide that this is not that important of a technology category for them to play in.
So if you if you just assume that that China considers AI to be very strategic, you know, strategically important.
And oh, by the way, you know, you know, all these funny meme, you know, tweets of like we have more Chinese AI researchers than the Chinese labs do in the US.
Like, obviously, they can produce incredible talent working on AI.
So this is not something that we own, you know, some impenetrable uh, you know, kind of talent, you know, base to uh to to be able to compete against.
So it's incredibly important strategically for China.
They actually have a lot of the core raw materials needed between, you know, raw human talent and in kind of industrial might uh for building chips and fabs and and and whatnot over time.
Um, you know, like the the getting the training data, you could just you know go hire 100,000 people in China to go generate an insane amount of data, like there's like ways of getting the data.
So at some point, you can it's not that complex to think through China becoming a very, very strong, you know, player in AI.
And if they're a very strong player in AI and the world adopts their models and adopts their architecture, that obviously is is going to be bad for the the US economically over the long run.
So Jensen's point is instead of sort of forcing that and catalyzing that to happen even faster by the constraints that that you impose, maybe we should actually be a part of the infrastructure build out that.
Once the knowledge is distributed, export controls have to target capabilities, not assume the stack can be sealed.
Free economics radio examines evidence that AI is displacing some workers as an already weak entry-level market gives labor less leverage.
That matters for anyone trying to start or restart a career now.
Second thing I think is frankly, free money in the form of very, very low interest rates and essentially no inflation has just massively fueled private equity, hedge funds, all forms of capital investment and capital formation.
The 2019 tax cuts to wealthy people and businesses, companies just are more concentrated now.
And that also hurts labor and helps capital.
So I think what you've seen is just lots of pressure to keep wages down.
The gig economy has done nothing to improve people's economic security.
So I look for data all over the place.
And I have to say, when it comes to net job loss from AI, it's hard for me to be persuaded that anybody really knows what they're talking about because, you know, for every job that may be quote, eliminated by AI, there are theoretically other jobs that could be, quote, created by AI because there are new needs, and humans just keep wanting new and different stuff.
That's the part that seems to get left out to me.
Right now, the only data that I see that shows AI could be quote unquote hurting folks in the workforce is with younger people.
The data is now showing consistently that entry-level workers, college-educated folks in their 20s are in fact having a rough go of it to find jobs.
There are a lot of people who are saying there's going to be no work for humans to do because in some number of years the AI is going to be so good, I can't imagine what human beings are going to do.
And that's not you saying that at all.
That isn't me.
Like I gave a speech and Read Hastings.
Shaping this market.
On Masters in Business, former Vanguard CEO Bill McNabb explains the structural advantage index funds hold over active equity funds across long time horizons.
Lower costs and fewer bets that have to keep paying off.
Sure.
And you know, Jack himself was very, you know, making sure that we were competitive.
Money market funds were just taking off, and we got into the money market fund wars.
So, you know, people will, you know, it it's hard for people to imagine today, but yields were in you know 17, 18% at different times.
And Dreyfus, Fidelity, and Vanguard were the three money market fund giants, you know, we we each had a couple billion dollars, but everybody was comparing yields.
And so active management and the yield on the money market fund in the early days, those were like the big drivers.
So my pet thesis.
So to put this into context, 15 billion in the early 80s, just about 15 trillion today.
That's just a crazy, crazy uh thousandfold increase.
10,000 fold increase?
That's just a uh uh insane run.
My theory is the late 90s, the scandals, the crashes, the anal scandal, the accounting scandal, the IPO scandal, all one after another.
I I think a lot of people just threw their hands up and said, you know what?
Just buy me the whole market, let me know when it's time to retire.
Let me know when I have enough to retire.
I i is that oversimplifying what happened, or is that a good idea?
So I would say I would say that's that's the psychological part of it.
There was also the math part of it, which is on an after-tax basis, index funds beat 90% of active equities over any long any rolling time.
Anything more than a decade.
Anything more than a decade.
So if you were a long-term investor and you wanted to win, you indexed.
And so, you know, it was it was interesting to me as a participant in the market.
I've listened to our competitors and they talk, well, you know, indexing's having its moment, but it's gonna cycle out.
And you know, stock markets will be back any day.
And the math was just overwhelming.
Um, that when you and and and the real reason, and this was Jack Bogle's again, oversimplified discussion.
But essentially, if you have two big parts of the market, one that's actively managed and one that's passively managed, they have to add up to the market.
The longer the horizon, the more those recurring costs compound against the active manager.
On all in, Chalmath, Palahepidia, and the panel separate frontier AI from cheaper commodity intelligence, then consider simpler agents that can refine their own workflows.
With AI systems gaining autonomy and Chromium facing an actively exploited sandbox escape, the security stakes are immediate.
And they're not competing on being at the frontier, they're competing on price, and those prices are significantly lower.
But it really is uh, I think a two-tier market at this point.
I agree with you about how promising Grockbot is.
Grockbot is awesome.
Yeah.
I would assume that both Anthropic and OpenAI will eventually roll out their own version of a bots.
They need a simplified, strip-down version for normies.
Yeah.
And they can leave the more complicated co-work, et cetera, to the top five or 10% of the audience.
Yeah.
The uh ratings here from Polymarket, which company has the best AI model by the end of 2026.
OpenAI's chances just spiked from low single digits now to over 20.
People are really counting them out.
Now it looks like they're viable again.
Anything that creates competition, I think is good.
Before it looked like Anthropic was running away with it.
They're about to have this monster IPO.
If OpenAI can at least make it a two-horse race, that's good.
I think it's great that Grokbot launch.
I agree with you.
The product is awesome.
Here's your big tip, David.
I created a new bot and I called it Improve My Bots Bot.
And I made a bot and I said, give me an instruction set here, go through all my bots and fill out their skills and instructions and make them better every day.
It went through and it took like two or three of them.
Say, can I put these two or three together and make one instruction set?
It would be better for you.
These two or three should come together.
And it then went through and told me all the changes, made my bots like 30, 40% better on average, I would say.
So you create a civilization.
I created a multi-level civilization and I told it to make everybody better.
Yes.
Yeah, your civilization is thriving.
But no, that is that is a really good like hack in Brockbot is you tell your chief what else should be.
That's today's daily rundown.
Thanks for listening.
We'll be back tomorrow.
