Claude inside an investment office.
The mechanics behind crypto liquidity and why personal ethics still matter inside broken systems.
Plus, how Sephora's training helped shape a 150 million dollar beauty founder.
On Capital Allocators, Abby Barlow and a panel of investment professionals explain how they use Claude for manager diligence, legal review, benchmarking, and custom apps.
With Fable 5.1 cracking a 370-year-old cipher, this is the practical side of the same story.
AI moving from impressive demos into daily work.
This is what we own.
This is the history.
Recommend an agenda for a deck.
Claude is available all the time.
I'm laying in bed one night on my phone with Claude.
What about this?
And what about that?
Can you show me a draft of a PowerPoint?
You can say if that's good or bad that I'm doing that night, but it felt good to get it out of my head.
The next morning I come in and it's done stuffed.
How about tools you've used beyond Claude?
I use ChatGPT for lots of questions mostly.
I know others are using Perplexity.
We went with Claude.
It is more than we even know how to use at this point.
Something that's worked well is I've asked AI to interview me in the goal of creating a context document for it to always have.
I say, hey, Claude, let's take an hour.
I want you to ask me everything about my organization, my business, myself, my working style, the history of this organization, the family, ask me anything.
And I want the output at the end to be a document that is shared for any new project that you start working on.
We want to create an enterprise level context doc that everyone on the team is using consistently.
We just hired a new person.
He's been here three weeks.
How valuable would it be for him to have some master context document to put into Claude before he asks it to do any little project?
It's gonna know more about where he sits, what he's working on.
What are examples of things that you thought you could use AI for that didn't really work?
It does make mistakes, especially when you're dealing with numbers and complexity.
It gets me to a solid first draft.
I need to thoroughly scrub it.
Like a junior analyst would do.
You would never take something the analyst would give you the first time and be like, this is perfect.
I'm showing it to the family now.
It was double counting some of our commitments in our pacing model I was building.
It's hard to catch that spot.
I have gotten in a habit where I will ask it at the end of any deliverable, go back to the beginning of this conversation and what we were trying to accomplish, review the deliverable, triple check all the numbers again, find your own errors.
It will be like, oh, I missed these three things.
How did you determine what data you're comfortable sharing with information that might be confidential coming from managers?
I have been asking the real shift is Claude becoming part of the process from the first manager deck onward.
On flirting with models, Lucas Schumerman breaks down how an internal liquidity provider aggregates and hedges crypto orders.
Earning through the spread while still offering traders a lower all-in cost than fee charging venues.
Now, what's interesting here is it means that the revenue that you're going to generate, because you're not generating maker or taker fees is entirely in the spread.
But your pitch is that that spread is going to be a tighter all-in cost compared to other venues that are going to charge fees on top of their spread.
Can you walk us through maybe how these things can coexist?
How can you charge a tighter spread than a venue that is going to have those fees?
So I think there's two questions really to answer here.
One is the economy of scale of market makers and why that's an amazing flywheel.
And the second is walking through the life cycle of the trade and maybe a common misconception that you're asking about that we can blast through to start with is that because we aggregate liquidity, because we hedge, which we do, we don't counter trade users, we don't v-book, that our execution quality on kind of these venues must mean kind of always crossing the spread and the taker fees, and therefore that our net execution cost should be, you know, super set or uh higher than that.
That's not the case for the same reason that if I trade against jump or Jane or Hudson River trading or in crypto, Winchameter, Selena and beyond.
You can imagine that, you know, if I do a large order with them, they might be aggressing to offlay at risk.
They might be trading on a variety of different exchanges to build those hedging positions on the other side.
Let's say I sold a 100 million dollars of BTC to Wintermute.
But does that preclude them from quoting me very, very, very tight on that order, tighter than the taker fees on Binance, tighter than we could possibly walk the book at that size on any of these exchanges.
No, it doesn't preclude them at all, right?
I mean, that's very much their core business.
So when I think about how does OLP aggregate liquidity, we use aggregation as one way to describe kind of our model, this intermediation of the flow, this principal brokerage style model.
But another way to think about it is we act like a market maker.
So our goal is to build a large economy of scale through internalization of flow, through broad connectivity to hedging venues, through economy of scales that we have at the hedging venues and beyond, such that just like a large market maker would, you know, we're quoting better than the sum of our part.
A tighter quoted spread only matters if the hedging holds up when markets get volatile.
On econ talk, Adam Mastriani examines internal control, ethical participation, and the dangerous belief that individual choices are meaningless unless the whole system changes.
It's a useful lens for today's fights over dodgy ads, cyber attacks.
And who takes responsibility inside giant platforms.
Yeah.
But uh they just say, well, since I can't buy if I walk away, it doesn't accomplish anything.
They just slot another person into my job.
So I have to burn down the whole system.
I have to destroy it and start over.
And I think that's a mistake.
I think that's an incredibly dangerous attitude, but that's not the point of your essay.
So unless you want to add anything to that, I'm going to move on.
No, no, I think it's totally tied in.
That I think one reason why people think it is uh acceptable to obey the incentives is just like, look, things are so complicated.
You, you know, there's no ethical consumption under capitalism and whatever the rights version of that is that just there is bad in the world, it's beyond my capacity to do anything about.
So, like, if I can't burn down the whole system, I might as well participate in it.
And maybe I can reduce the child's suffering by 0.3%.
Um, and and I think like, yeah, of course, like problems of the world are very complex.
You don't get to pull the lever yourself, which is why I would rather think about like what's the good that you can do?
Like what like what is the internal locus of control you can have?
Um, what are the things that you value?
How can you do that?
Um, and then hope that other people do the same.
And the the complex system is an emergent property of all the decisions that each of us make.
If we all made different decisions, the system would work differently.
I understand a lot of people are not going to make those decisions.
Doesn't mean you shouldn't.
Um, and so I think there is some appeal to complexity here that is also a an exculpatory account that things are so complicated that if I if I can't be pure, I might as well be fully impure.
What are you gonna do?
And I don't think you have to.
But I think the challenge is for most of us is that you have an opportunity.
It is a mixed bag, perhaps in its impact on the world.
But you rationalize it to yourself, saying, Well, I won't do the worst things that that I could do in that job.
I'll I'll in fact, I'll do, I'll go the other direction.
Uh I'll be uh ethical fill in the blank.
Um, of course, systems emerge from individual choices, even when no single choice can fix them.
On how I built this, Thrive Cosmetics founder Carissa Bodner tells Guy, Raz how working at Sephora and Nordstrom built her early skills.
Listen for Sephora's certification-based training model, structured practice, and constant reinforcement before she built a 150 million dollar business.
Then you go on to University of Washington.
Yeah.
And you go work at a Sephora as a makeup artist.
You get a job.
That's your job to make money while you're in college.
And I'm assuming you're getting better at it every day.
And working at Nordstrom at the same time.
So I was working Nordstrom and Sephora at the same time.
Doing makeup at Nordstrom as well.
No, I got rejected actually.
I um I applied for all the beauty counters and um I I didn't have the skill set that they were looking for.
And so Sephora, we were the underdog at the time when I started working there.
And I those people raised me.
I mean, that was really my education in beauty.
Yeah.
And did you like so people somebody would walk into Sephora?
Yeah, and you could offer up any different kinds of brands, and you would sort of apply the makeup to them and and maybe they would buy that brand.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so we got trained on every single brand.
And it was so fun.
Every single day we were doing a mini training.
And what I thought that was also so brilliant was they had different certifications that you could get.
And so I was constantly having this reinforcement of when I learn, when I demonstrate, when I can show proficiency, I get a certification in a new level of artistry.
Or on skincare and fragrance and hair care.
And so I have so much gratitude for Sephora and what they taught me.
All right.
So you are um and you're studying marketing, communications, all those things that are gonna be useful for you.
And you you graduate.
By the skin of my teeth, I graduated.
Yeah.
I got my dr I got my dream job about six months before I got my dream job at Clarisonic doing.
What was Clarisonic?
Oh my gosh, Clarisonic was the Sonicare for your face.
It was they they pioneered um the evolution in cleansing.
And it was a cleaning brush for your face, like a wet brush.
Yeah.
So it's like it vibrates from the training turned a college job into an operating foundation for her own company.
That's today's daily rundown.
Thanks for listening.
We'll be back tomorrow.
