Inspection robots that do their thinking at the edge and in the cloud.
Plus AI made animation enters the studio system and software engineering's uneasy relationship with upfront planning.
On all in robotic CEOs explain why industrial customers don't really want robots, they want inspection data gathered autonomously.
Here's how they split power hungry computation between the machine and the cloud without putting a human back in the loop.
No, you want hands-free autonomy.
Nobody should even be bothered that there's a robot.
They don't care about a rover.
Actually, they don't even want a robot.
They want the data, they want the insights.
If you upload a blurry image to the cloud, it's too late.
Yeah.
But in the cloud, of course, you do contextual analysis, historic downtime analysis, etc.
Are people asking for these to be able to operate for 24 hours yet or 12 hours?
No, for sure.
So the maximum is in the eight hour range, so it has enough time for charging.
If you need to go beyond that, that's rare.
There's diminishing returns to more frequently do it.
But you have to manage, they do it manually today, maybe once or twice a day, and they get eight, fifteen, twenty times now, right?
So it's already the frequency goes massively up.
Yeah.
Without putting people into harm's way, plus the quality is so much higher.
What's the most fascinating science fiction uh deployment you have currently with these?
Yeah, I mean, what's really exciting?
Any anything offshore, right?
People fly out with helicopters.
Every helicopter flight costs in the tens of thousands.
So, but if you're offshore, it's very tricky, right?
Got it.
It needs to work.
There's almost no people around.
It needs to be floating.
These are oil rigs, oil and and uh wind energy offshore as well.
Well, wait a second, these things don't operate in the water.
Ah, yes.
So, how do they work with windmills in the ocean?
There's windmills around hundreds of them.
They go together to a transformer station.
Ah that transforms to AC to DC before it transforms.
That's a manned facility typically.
Got it.
They convert roles.
This is where the robot operates.
Got it.
Can they operate like in severe conditions like the Antarctic and stuff like that?
And have you deployed them there yet?
Well, in Norway for sure.
So that's my degree.
In deserts plus 40, 50, 60 degree, right?
So that's exactly the points where you want to send in a robot.
Temperatures, dust, humidity, the most important we have a robot.
That edge cloud split is the real product decision.
What must work on site and what can wait for a server?
On the A16Z podcast, creators and studios are adopting generative production for short form microdramas and fully AI animation.
The shift matters because storytelling skill, not a traditional production resume, could become the scarce part of the pipeline.
All the way to the big studios, um, are seeing the opportunity in this.
And so we have people who know how to tell a narrative, seeing the opportunity in the micro drama space, which to me means we're gonna get an explosion of actually really gripping stories, like super interesting content beyond the AI element of it.
I actually think we we might be at this point already, but there's gonna be a lot of micro drama content that you don't even know is AI and people don't even care.
It's they're just there for for the story.
I'm happy you pulled this up because honestly, six months ago, I was like, I'm never gonna watch an AI generated program, never gonna watch an AI generated movie.
Now I'm like, actually, if it's gripping and it's interesting, I'll watch it.
Totally.
I think the quality has gotten a lot better too.
Um I spend a lot of time with studio execs and sort of, you know, who want to get involved in the investing space or are curious, sort of what's happening in generative media from an early stage perspective.
I was just down at at AI on the lot um in in Hollywood and like sat through a bunch of panels of how people are actually using this.
And I think folks would be surprised by how many TV shows and movies today already have some element of AI being used, and how many of the big studios are considering fully generative content?
Like Amazon and Netflix have already both announced um programs for fully AI generated animations.
Um I think the bigger studios are afraid of like PR risk around things like that, but are absolutely exploring very similar things.
Yeah, and you know, when I talk to creators as well, execs, founders, people with interested in this space, and also just like white consumers.
Some people are like, this isn't this just gonna replace like Netflix or you know, movies or actors, actresses.
And I'm like, no, I just actually think it's gonna be a different type of content and entertainment we consume.
Do you think it's accurate?
And is that why we're going?
I think it's gonna be a mix.
So lower production costs broaden, who can make a show?
They don't remove the need to hold an audience.
On the pragmatic engineer, formal methods expert Hillel Wayne compares software with fields like circuit design, chemical processing, and industrial engineering.
He's asking why engineers reject waterfall and how the cost of iteration should determine how much planning happens first.
And I wanted to see every single kind's view into what engineering looked like to compare them all to software.
Which when you think about it, when we say, like, oh, software isn't like building a bridge, maybe it isn't.
But is it like designing a circuit?
Is like figuring out a chemical flow?
Maybe those are much more closer to the kinds of engineering we do.
I needed to know.
I think in the end I talked to about 15 or 20 people in total across about six or seven different fields.
And what were the similarities that you found that software engineering has with either specific types of engineering or across the board?
If I had to summarize what I found in general, I'd put it like this.
Everybody hates waterfall.
No way.
That's why, for example, when you're building a building where you can't like build it multiple times and see what happens, you have to do a lot of planning up front.
But even then, you are looking for ways to iterate on the plan.
You do things like build scale models, you use software to simulate the building, you do like CAD models, et cetera.
And in other fields, like in, for example, electrical engineering, you have the ability to come up with a design, test it, and then throw it to the fab and get something back.
So they will iterate a lot more than civil engineering does.
Interesting enough.
I I heard the term smoke test originated from electrical engineering, actually.
I did not look into that, but I could believe it.
Yeah, apparently it's when you have a test circuit and you just hook it up.
And if it does, if it smokes, it's already bad.
That is very interesting.
So even within engineering, when we say traditional engineering, there's just layers of engineering or differences, right?
Layers of iteration, I'd say.
One of the first people I talked to was actually a mineral.
Software made iteration cheap, but cheap isn't the same as free.
That's the daily rundown for today.
Thanks for listening.
We'll catch you tomorrow.
