The trillion dollar AI infrastructure build out, the code behind Gmail's earliest storage system, and how private companies create immense wealth.
Plus, Luis Garicano on Spain's productivity crisis and an energy-driven path forward.
On the A16 Z podcast state of markets, the trillion dollar AI build-out gets compared with the dot-com boom.
The key difference, today's infrastructure suppliers can trade at six or seven times forward earnings, not the hundred times multiples of two thousand.com boom in that way, where some of the highest market cap companies in the world had their massive stock run-ups based on increases in their trading multiples and would trade in many cases for 100 times PE.
That's not what's happening here.
In contrast, some of the memory companies, which again are very cyclical, are trading for call it six times, seven times forward earnings.
So very, very different.
And I think there's an important double click here where since ChadGVD came out almost four years ago, the market's up 90%, which is 17% annualized.
And I think anytime there's been a 17% annualized growth to four years, the natural instinct is, well, that's gotta come down, right?
We're definitely in a hot period.
But when you compare that to, as you said, the market trading for below 20 times earnings, growing 15%.
This definitely feels a little different than maybe the 2021 period that was recent or the 2000 period when multiples and growth were not really going together.
Yeah, totally agreed.
So I mentioned the scale of the CapEx build out on the context of the railroads.
If you just look at the hyperscalers, Alphabet, Amazon, Meta, Microsoft, and Oracle, their CapEx in 2026 is about $780 billion dollars.
That's up from $416 billion dollars in 2025.
And all expectations point to them spending over a trillion dollars annually from 2027.
So the pattern recognition is each of these computing platforms has supported a much larger population of users and uses.
In this case, this build out can happen so quickly, and demand can still outstrip supply because the amount of users is driven by the fact that there's already existing distribution.
This trend is built on top of the internet and cloud computing, obviously, and mobile phones.
And so sort of immediately could reach billions of users in contrast to previous technology cycles.
Yeah, and I think it's an important point to double click on just because we've moved well beyond this model of occasional queries, right?
If you think about the rise of agents, you have parallel tasks, you have long running tasks.
And so, I mean, Alex, you mentioned this previously, right?
You have tasks going into the evening, during the day, when you're doing other things.
And so if you think about agents autonomously writing code, searching, carrying out these tasks, it just gives these platforms a much larger compute requirement than ever thought.
AI demand may be historic, but valuation still decides who can survive the cycle.
That leads to Gmail's early storage system and how decades old code can shape both engineers and infrastructure.
So many people like you had a positive impact of being able to use this thing.
And the nice thing that I what I really liked about it is it was free, but I wasn't like stealing any software from anyone.
You see what I mean?
Uh this was at a time where free software was not as common as today.
Free and open source was not as mainstream as it is today.
Yeah, so the other cool thing I've heard from a lot of people, because people still like I mentioned this, I'm like, oh, I've used it.
And then some people, you know, software managers like learned how to program by looking at your code.
And I'm just like, wow, that was the code I wrote 30 years ago, and I wasn't nearly as good as a software engineer as I am now.
And then you got into Google second time around.
You you you you you said yes.
What did you start to work on?
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I got in there and they said, like, hey, you know, this is early days, 2002 is April 1st, uh, auspicious date.
Um year start date.
Yeah, uh, April 1st, 2002.
And I got in there and they were like, Oh, well, you know, uh, we're gonna actually build e uh email, uh, Google email.
And it wasn't called Gmail at the time.
There's a code name internally, it's called Caribou.
Caribou.
Yeah.
Um, and got in there, started working on it, and I was kind of tasked with working on the the back end threading and message storage and indexing system, and worked on that, you know, pretty hardcore for the first year and a half.
Actually, I was on to I think it was three years um on it through the launch, which actually happened to be April 1st, 2004.
And do you remember this?
There was a uh it wasn't like considering April's full joke.
Yeah, I remember.
So correct me if I'm wrong, but uh the launch said Gmail with one gigabyte of storage or or something or infinite storage, and then like star one gigabyte.
I'm not sure what it was, but back then most email providers would give you about 10 megabytes of storage to free email providers, and then you could pay for maybe 50 megabytes or 100 megabytes, but that was really expensive.
This launch it looked like an April Fool's joke because who could possibly give you a free email service with 20 to 50 times or 100 times more storage?
We were talking about this internally, it was like kind of a shock and awe campaign for the industry.
I I think it was actually Masters in Business look beyond the Forbes.
400 to America's roughly 65,000 people worth more than 100 million dollars.
The data shows how private business ownership builds fortunes that public market wealth rankings often miss.
I think that was the most shocking number in the entire book.
It's a huge group of people.
So Forbes 400 is 400 people.
You had like all the people in their families, their kids, maybe it's like 1,500 people or 2,000 people.
Um 65,000.
Not 65,000.
Right.
So we're talking about like 30 to you know 50 times the number of people here.
That is why not only say house, there are a lot of three, four million dollar houses, but there are a lot of like 10, 20 million dollar houses.
That's why, like Aspen, the average house price is so high.
It's not just like some tech people from Silicon Valley buying those houses.
It's like car dealers and people running like manufacturing businesses, making inputs into um production for construction and so on.
And um, they've accumulated like really screw you money, and it's amazing.
Yeah, I always say if you want to feel really bad about yourself, go to Zillow, set it to see sold houses and look at a wealthy part of America.
Out in the Hamptons, it's genuinely shocking how many 30, 40, 50 million dollar houses like hundreds transact every summer.
It's it it it blows my mind.
Here's another data point that um I'm kind of it starting to intuit, having plowed through the book.
Half of Americans who are worth five million dollars or more own a private business.
That really seems to be the data point that is the core theme here.
That if you want to accumulate that sort of wealth or you want to understand where that wealth is in America, you have to look at business owners.
That's absolutely right.
One of the things that really jumped out to us when we were looking at pass-through businesses is that 70 cents of every dollar of income of these entities went to the top one percent.
So this is really much more concentrated than public equity ownership and other forms of wealth.
And it's just very prevalent as you go up uh further and further into the wealth distribution.
And again, more more confirmation, but that wider ownership data changes the picture of who America's ultra-wealthy actually are.
On conversations with Tyler, economist Luis Garricano argues that Spain's growth since 2008 has largely gone to pensions while productive investment has lagged.
He also lays out an alternative built on solar, nuclear power, skilled talent, and data centers.
A timely bet as AI pushes energy demand higher.
Essentially, a hundred percent of the GDP growth we had since 2008 has gone to pensions, to the pensioners.
And in terms of investment, there is very little in terms of investment, productive investment.
We had this fantastic highway network and this uh high-speed rail network.
It's not really getting the mention that it needs.
Just as one example, the country is basically being governed by and for the older retired people.
So, what is the optimistic scenario look like?
You don't have to predict it's gonna happen, but lay out for me how it could all go well, and you know, you would get productivity growth of one and a half percent a year and economic growth a bit higher than that.
So Spain has amazing fundamentals for the current situation.
Meaning we could easily be very electricity energy rich due to solar, wind, and nuclear.
We have all this empty space where you could put nuclear plants with much resistance.
In fact, we are closing them for political reasons.
But the energy could be a big advantage.
It's a really amazing place to live.
There is no more diverse geography and climate and nature anywhere in Europe, I think, or close to and beautiful.
And you could easily see a situation where Spain becomes Florida or uh Texas, Austin, you know, like Texas.
Think of Texas.
Attract technology, attract talent, who wants to live there, attract energy, build the data centers, etc.
etc.
That scenario is not impossible.
The political economy is the tricky part.
But doesn't that mean you actually don't have good fundamentals?
You said you don't even have a Yimbi movement.
Life there really is quite good.
I've been many times.
It's one of my favorite countries to visit.
Isn't that like a kind of resource curse where there's no sense of crisis?
Old people live for a long time, it's very comfortable, the weather's great, the food is amazing.
Aren't those in fact liabilities in a time of very rapid change?
I think that's a great point.
The political economy is the constraint.
We have had that's the daily rundown for today.
Thanks for listening.
We'll be back tomorrow.
